With the rapid growth of information techniques, knowledge discovery in databases (KDD) is a critical research field to reveal important,

valuable, interesting, and essential knowledge from unprocessed data sources. Many different kinds of expertise or rules have been proposed

to state the essential concepts from a dataset, and association rule mining (ARM) and/or frequent-itemset mining (FIM) work to gain

fundamental knowledge in KDD which has been applied to many domains and applications. Traditional FIM-based algorithms ignored important

factors that are more often than not present in real applications. For example, a commercial company should put more attention to profits 

and purchase quantities. Unfortunately, FIM does not take into account these types of valuable factors, thus the discovered information may 

be incomplete or not overly useful. High-utility itemset mining (HUIM) was proposed to create solutions for revealing more valuable 

information from a database. HUIM is different from traditional ARM or FIM since it applies utility information (like profit) instead of 

frequency information for revealing useful patterns. It is usually more suitable to match the requirement of real-world applications. A 

utility threshold is set by individuals to select high-utility itemsets; if an itemset is called a high-utility itemset, its utility has to 

be higher than the minimum utility threshold. For example, let us look at an itemset (pattern) as a high-utility itemset in a transaction 

database. This means that this itemset gained more profit in the past and might have more potential to generate more profit in the future. 

Therefore, more attention should be given to it. Furthermore, not only “profit” can be applied as a utility value to mining high-utility 

itemsets, but “weight”, “cost” and other different interesting factors can also construct different types of high-utility itemsets. Several 

previous works were respectively proposed to reveal the set of complete HUIs in recent years. 
